---
layout: post
title: Not Every Photography is art_Why my friend did not become the next Edward Weston
---


  A few years ago, a good friend of mine decided to pursue a career in photography. His first photograph, a view of a neighborhood street in Irvine California dipped in black and white, served as the basis for this life changing decision. The photograph in my opinion depicted a sense of simplicity and beauty. 
  
  
  Although it was captured with an iPhone 5 camera lens, to my untrained eyes it looked as artistic as they come. In fact, it was the very factor that he did not need professional equipment to capture such candid excellence, is what I found most impressive and attractive about his photograph. Even though, my friend was praised by myself and other close acquaintances for his artistic accomplishment he was told by other photographers that he still had a very long way to go. After multiple failed attempts to get artistic recognition for his work he gave up on this dream and pursued something else.

 

  I personally believed art is subjective and disagreed with the critiques my friend had received. One question had left me puzzled and startled about the responses he had slowly come to accumulate. How was he told that his work was not yet art, when art was up for interpretation? Is art not (very much like the idea of beauty) subjective and different from one person to another? Would it not be bold to indefinitely deem someone’s work unartistic? But it was not until I was introduced to Stieglitz and read his philosophy regarding photography that I truly understood why my friend did not become the next Edward Weston.
  
  
Alfred Stieglitz a strong advocate of photography as a form of art highly conveyed that not all photography is art. He emphasizes on imaginative talent as being key and that practice and learning alone would not be enough to produce true art. “In the photographic world to-day there are recognized but three classes of photographers – the ignorant, the purely technical, and the artistic” (Stieglitz, 1). After coming across Stieglitz, it became more and more apparent that my friend lay in the “ignorant” category when it came to photography. I strongly agree with Stieglitz that not all photography is art, in order for photography to be considered in the fine art domain I looked at my friends photograph with respect to two criteria’s; Message and Intention.
When we take a look at the first criteria which is message, what this means is in order for a photograph to be considered art it has to have meaning engraved or encoded with in it. It has to be trying to say something. Some might argue that my friends photo might also be trying to convey a message, but that argument would be lost if they were asked exactly what message? Here I am not disregarding the possibility of a cryptic message in the photograph. His photograph might be trying to say something in a subtle manner. Yes, a message can be abstract it can be something that invokes emotion but to produce this photograph my friend did not intend or intentionally point the camera at the scene and therefore to me his photograph missed the first criteria. This takes us to our second criteria which is intention.
   What differentiates the product of an individual who merely takes a snapshot by accident and a person who is an artist, is the person’s intention. A true artist who produces art takes his/her picture with intention to do so. This criteria aligns with the criteria I mentioned above because an artist has an idea or a message and then intentionally points his/her camera in order to put that very idea in a tangible form. With regard to this criteria my friend also fails in producing something that would be considered art because he did not intend to capture the very image he produced. It was an accident that could have happened to anyone. This idea makes sense because without the intention and just the coincidence the term art would be left open to anyone’s work and would lose its entirety. 
 My friend had no technical education, his photograph was just merely an accident. He also did not exactly mean to capture the image to convey any type of message. He just had unintentionally stumbled on something beautiful and therefore he could not repeat the same beauty in his later work. Therefore it is not harsh to say that my friends photograph although very pleasurable to view is not art because it does not convey any message. “The point is, what you have to say and how to say it. The originality of a work of art refers to the originality of the thing expressed and the way it is expressed” (Stieglitz, 1).


 
Works Cited
Ekin, Cemal, et al. “Fine Art Photography.” Kept Light Photography, 12 Sept. 2017, www.keptlight.com/fine-art-photography/.
