Westernization as a pre-requisite for Art? – Is the nonexistence of art in nonwestern cultures an urban myth or a justifiable fact



By: Melat Tekie
	It is not wrong to state that western culture has had a big influence on non-western societies. In fact, after the integration of society, western influence has had a rampage of effect on non-westerner’s lives. Whether you live in a western country or not; we have come to a time where western culture will have some extent of influence on your daily life. Western medicine, fashion, and entertainment have come into such an integration there has come a new generation of non-westerners who have grown with it as a spectrum of their own culture and upbringing. When we bring in the question of art in the sense of this western impact, one of the biggest concerns to have and ask about is whether westernization was a pre-requisite for non-western art.  To answer this question, I will focus on a non-western country that I was born and raised in; Ethiopia.
    
    Traditional church paintings were customary in ancient Ethiopian culture. Their style was so unique and captivating it was not a shock that it became a norm and was quickly adapted by numerous of Ethiopia’s most notable painters. Present day Ethiopian bibles, museums and art galleries are packed with these types of paintings because of this very factor. Growing up I was fascinated by the aesthetic values of this paintings and truly found them intoxicating.  So, imagine my utter shock when I discovered in a western context my most prized art work might not even be given the status of art. 
 
Figure 1 Braham’s sacrifice: https://imgur.com/gallery/7HSMd


    Nonwestern cultures throughout the years much like western ones have been notorious for expressing art through literature, music, dancing and so on. But according to various anthropologists regardless of the presence of such “Art” there is no real concept of art present in nonwestern cultures and therefore nonwestern “Art” doesn’t have the status of “Art”. This notion was made based on the idea of the grouping of fine art. Advocates of this claim suggest that western cultures had to go through significant periods such as the renaissance and learn to group fine art in a certain way. According to western cultures fine art is associated with the idea of representation, Imagination, and aesthetic quality and since nonwestern cultures do not group their art the same way the concept of art does not exist.  Therefore, according to this the art work, I have demonstrated on figure 1 does not have a real concept of art. 
    
    
    I disagree with the above sentiment and after reading Stephen Davies writing am now more equipped to defend non-western art and my most praised painting. Davies defends non-western art by making it abundantly clear that it’s the aesthetic value and communication that’s used in differentiating between non-art and art. He explains that although anthropologists argue that nonwestern art lacks theoretical vocabulary there is a standard that is enforced and kept in nonwestern art just like the western cultures. 


    The painting I have used as an example of non-western art (figure 1) is called Braham’s sacrifice. It was a religious paining drawn to illustrate a significant aspect in the Ethiopian Greek orthodox bible. Granted, this paining was initially painted to educate a certain part of the society on religious material but just like the religious paintings westerners used for reinforcing religion in western culture that were later deemed art after the renaissance because of their aesthetic values, this painting was also deemed art in current Ethiopia as art because of those very aesthetic values. This style of painting some refer to as “Coptic” had such a unique way of depicting the facial aspect that it was adapted into the Ethiopian mainstream of art and is still trending and used currently by many upcoming artists. The aesthetic value of this kind of drawing is its biggest measure of value as an art. 


    The biggest objection to my defense of nonwestern art is that since the very bases of the value of art in my argument is the aesthetics, the very question critics of this would have is that “would this be enough to separate the art from the non-art?”.  This is a very real and true concern since by this treatment anything might pass as art and art might loss value. But in this case for instance if you use the art I have used above you can witness that it surpasses this criticism since it used “social institution” to be certified as art. we can also use Davies argument to defend this objection and my art piece signifying the investment of aesthetic effect seen in this painting(figure1). 
    Therefore, I full heartedly disagree with the notion that art is non-existent in nonwestern cultures and believe that this might be a common misconception. The standards for evaluating it might be different but the very art does exist. The nonexistence of art in nonwestern cultures might very well be an urban myth. 

